20150107 schmonz: I did not wind up doing my site conversion work
in this way. It might be simpler to write a spec for my website
now, and I might still like to.

-----

# A spec for my website

If my site were just a bunch of pages, I'd know what it does, and
I'd be able to tell whether the converted site did the same things.
It's not, so I don't, and I can't. Plus, some of what it does is
RSS and podcasts, and I'm sure I'd like to not flood aggregators.
So I'm going to start by figuring out as much as I can about what
my website currently does.

I'm going to describe each feature in
[Gherkin](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/wiki/Gherkin)-inflected
English, and I'm going to write the corresponding [step
definitions](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/wiki/Step-Definitions) in
Perl with the help of
[Test::BDD::Cucumber](http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-BDD-Cucumber/). The
step definitions may need to be implemented differently for Textpattern
and for ikiwiki; the feature definitions shouldn't need to change
at all. I bet this'll be a fun way to work.

Properties to be preserved:

- URL structure
- Content
- Feeds
- Appearance

Properties to be gleefully jettisoned:

- Apache
- MySQL
- PHP

## Test mechanics

### Can I describe features for more specific personas?

- As a parent
- As a friend
- As a professional software developer
- As a potential consulting client

### Can I get `vim` to help me write for Cucumber?

When Python `behave` and Ruby `cucumber` were installed, `vim`
showed `>>` in the gutter for some lines. What was that trying to
help me with? Can I get it to help me with Perl `Test::BDD::Cucumber`?

> It's trying to show me where step definitions are missing. Would be
> nice to teach it about the Cucumber implementation I'm using.

## Can I rename `step_definitions` to `steps`?

I think I just like it better. To make the change safely, I have to
compare output from `prove -v` before and after.

## Can I get `prove` to fail when steps are missing?

Right now I have to look carefully through `prove -v`. Should I
want to be running `pherkin` instead?

## Can I store `steps` elsewhere?

I might prefer them next to `features`. But only if that's common
in Greater Cucumberland.

## Can I test one feature at a time?

- With `pherkin`, yes
- With `prove`?
